Add Mappers' Report: February news post (#5012)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2021-03-02-mappers-report-february.md

---
layout: post
title: "The Mappers' Report: February"
date: 2021-03-02 08:00:00 +0000 
---

News news and even more news! The February issue of the Mappers' Report is here to inform you about everything mapping-related that happened last month!

![](/wiki/shared/news/banners/the-mappers-report.jpg)

This month's issue of the Mappers' Report contains the following topics:

- **[Ranking Criteria Changes](#rc-changes)**
- **[Within the Beatmap Nominators and NAT](#within-bn-nat)**
- **[Mappers' Showcase](#mappers-showcase)**
- **[Mapping Contests](#mapping-contests)**
- **[Conclusion](#conclusion)**

## <a id="rc-changes"></a>Ranking Criteria Changes

> More ranking criteria changes! And we're here to show you them all! Actually, there was just one this month. However, we have new open proposals which need more input from the community, so head right over to the ranking criteria forum and drop your opinions!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There's been more ranking criteria changes, and we're here to show you them all! Actually, there was just one this month. 

However, we have new open proposals which need more input from the community, so head right over to the posts listed below and make your opinions heard.
```

also fwiw, be careful not to overuse exclamations - they tend to be best for end of sentence emphasis or tone and rarely used elsewhere

### All Modes

> - **[Modify metadata rule regarding fictional characters used as artist](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1130970):** A small, but important change. Solely character names can now be used as the artist, as long as it serves as the artist's alias.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **[Modify metadata rule regarding fictional characters used as artist](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1130970):** A small, but important change. With this, character names can be used as the artist designation for a specific beatmap, as long as it also serves as the artist's alias.
```

## Open Ranking Criteria Proposals

### All Modes

- **[Add official Greek romanization rules for metadata](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1256836)**
- **[Change song extension guideline to a rule](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1246979)**
- **[Reword rule about 2-song compilations to better reflect its original purpose](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1251310)**
- **[Add a short grace period for disqualified maps to help avoid "Speed ranking wars"](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1260714)**

### osu!mania

- **[Re-Definition of "Stream"](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1253956)**
- **[Clarification regarding easy difficulty guideline](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1238923)**

## <a id="within-bn-nat"></a>Within the Beatmap Nominators and NAT

> A new player has entered the game! Do you want to know who to request your beatmap? Well, search no more! Why not try one of these cool new people in the Beatmap Nominators? As always we will show you all of the recent additions and departures!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's a list of the recent additions and departures from the Beatmap Nominators, for all those who are looking for the latest in purple:
```

### BN Additions

- **osu!:** [Smoke](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/10726630), [NeKroMan4ik](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11387664), [Battle](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4037545), [Mir](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8688812) & [Lasse](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/896613)
- **osu!taiko:** [Yasuho](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8458835)
- **osu!catch:** [Xinely](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1521445)

> Do you want to see your own name on this list? Do you like modding and helping other people with their beatmaps? If your answer to both of these questions is "yes", then you can also become a Beatmap Nominator! The applications are always open.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do you like modding and helping other people with their beatmaps? Do you want to see your own name on this list? If your answer to both of these questions is "yes", then you can also become a Beatmap Nominator!
```

> Head over to the [Beatmap Nominator website](https://bn.mappersguild.com "Beatmap Nominators") and apply today!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The applications are always open, so head over to the [Beatmap Nominator website](https://bn.mappersguild.com "Beatmap Nominators") and apply today!
```

### BN Resignations

- **osu!:** [Nao Tomori](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5364763)
- **osu!catch:** [Rocma](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/566276)

### NAT Retirement

> After exactly 3 years as QAT/NAT, [Lasse](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/896613) decided to step down from the NAT. But he won't be completely gone as he will continue to be present within the mapping and modding community as Beatmap Nominator now, raising his modding activity even higher.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After exactly 3 years of serving in the QAT/NAT, [Lasse](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/896613) decided to step down from his position. However, he will continue to be present within the mapping and modding community as a Beatmap Nominator. As a consequence, we'll surely witness a huge boost in his modding activity that is already touching the heavens!
```
Had to add some fanciness there, it sounded too dull :P

> After exactly 3 years of serving in the QAT/NAT, [Lasse](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/896613) decided to step down from his position. However, he will continue to be present within the mapping and modding community as a Beatmap Nominator. As a consequence, we'll surely witness a huge boost in his modding activity that is already touching the heavens!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After exactly 3 years of serving in the QAT/NAT, [Lasse](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/896613) has decided to step down from his position. 

However, he will continue to be present within the mapping and modding community as a Beatmap Nominator, continuing his years-long trend of consistently being at the top echelon of nominator activity including publicly sharing his activity on his Twitter each month.
```

Thank you for all the hard work!

## <a id="mappers-showcase"></a>Mappers' Showcase

> Welcome to the 3rd cycle of the Mappers' Showcase! Twice already have we shown you the secret mapper gems in the community and now we start all over again with the osu! game mode!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Welcome to the 3rd cycle of the Mappers' Showcase, where we aim to show you the secret gems that are criminally underrated mappers hiding away in the community at large. This week is all about osu!, so let's get cracking:
```

A lot of thanks to this months' selectors [Morrighan](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/12042090) and [TheKingHenry](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5128277)!

### Val

> Hailing from the newest generation of metal mappers, [Val](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9010492) is perhaps the most known in the community thus far from his tandem mapping effort with [SinHay](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8855704) on the monumental mapset [Imperial Circus Dead Decadence - Songs Compilation](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1081431), which landed in the Loved-section at the beginning of this year. While somewhat subdued in the not-so-uncommon style of compilations, this debut with its wide variety of songs at various tempos already shows a good understanding of the fundamentals and more, particularly when it comes to streams.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Hailing from the newest generation of metal mappers, [Val](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9010492) is perhaps the most known in the community thus far from his tandem mapping effort with [SinHay](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8855704) on the monumental mapset [Imperial Circus Dead Decadence - Songs Compilation](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1081431), which landed in the Loved section at the beginning of this year. While somewhat subdued in the not-so-uncommon style of compilations, this debut with its wide variety of songs at various tempos already shows a good understanding of the fundamentals and more, particularly when it comes to streams.
```

> This prowess can be further seen on his more recent mapset [Ne Obliviscaris - Devour Me, Colossus (Part I): Blackholes](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1274508), where the expressiveness of the pattern design has been noticeably cranked up. In addition to the flowing streams, this marathon map also features beautifully crafted calmer middle sections where Val showcases his ability to work with sliders and rhythmically sparser grooves.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This prowess can be further seen on his more recent mapset [Ne Obliviscaris - Devour Me, Colossus (Part I): Blackholes](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1274508), where the expressiveness of the pattern design has been noticeably cranked up. In addition to the flowing streams, this marathon map also features beautifully crafted, calmer middle sections where Val showcases his ability to work with sliders and rhythmically sparser grooves.
```

> For the fans of this style of Val, [Native Construct - Mute](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1250251) is there to satiate the hunger. Featuring only relatively brief sections of pure streams, the rest of the song - and map - is populated by more diverse sections ranging from funky to serene.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For the fans of this style of Val, [Native Construct - Mute](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1250251) is there to satiate the hunger. Featuring only relatively brief sections of pure streams, the rest of the song—and map—is populated by more diverse sections ranging from funky to serene.
```

> Even if you prefer metal as a type of element rather than music, fret not. A glimpse at the six-feet deep section of Val's mapping career clearly shows that anything is possible in the music department too. Regardless, this is a name you don't want flying under your radar in the future, if fluid streams or beautiful sliderwork are close to your heart.

Reviewer 3: uber nitpick
```suggestion
Even if you prefer metal as a type of element rather than music, fret not. A glimpse at the six-feet deep section of Val's mapping career clearly shows that anything is possible in the music department too. Regardless, this is a name you don't want flying under your radar in the future if fluid streams or beautiful sliderwork are close to your heart.
```

### Smokebloke

> Soon on the rise, [Smokebloke](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7535045) *(Calliecube, Obamacube, or whatever else you may know them by)* has been making moves in the mapping scene and has improved their mapping to a very substantial level. Soon to rank their first beatmap, [Toromaru - Shounen wa Sora o Tadoru Prog Piano Remix](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1197597) as well as having their [NIWASHI - Playing With Ruby](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1178229) beatmap put up for the Loved voting at the very moment, Smokebloke certainly knows their way around the editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Soon on the rise, [Smokebloke](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7535045) *(aka Calliecube, Obamacube, or whatever else you may know them by)* has been making moves in the mapping scene and has improved their mapping to a very substantial level. Soon to rank their first beatmap, [Toromaru - Shounen wa Sora o Tadoru Prog Piano Remix](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1197597) as well as having their [NIWASHI - Playing With Ruby](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1178229) beatmap put up for the Loved voting at the very moment, Smokebloke certainly knows their way around the editor.
```

While these projects are on the older side, their newer beatmaps only continue to improve in quality, such as [Trerey-U+NIWASHI - Hisui](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1303715) with its dense rhythm and solid structure, providing both a feast for your eyes but also a fun experience while playing.

If you prefer technical finger control focused maps with pretty visuals, you should check out all of these and more to come from Smokebloke!

## <a id="mapping-contests"></a>Mapping Contests

> Do you like mapping? Do you seek competition? Do you want osu!supporter or even a shiny new badge? Search no more! All this and much more is what you can get in this month's contests! So what are you waiting for? Go and sign up!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do you like mapping? Do you seek competition? Do you want osu!supporter or even a shiny new badge? Search no more! All this and much more is what you can get in this month's contests:
```

### Monthly Speedmapping Series 2021

A shiny new monthly contest rises on the horizon! It's the [**Monthly Speedmapping Series 2021**](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1243245) or in short **MSS** for the osu! game mode.

> If you like creating beatmaps and also a fan of speedruns in general, this is for you! In this monthly contest, you will have to create a single difficulty beatmap for the osu! game mode from two provided songs in no more than 3 hours! This contest will go through the entire year, and every time you participate you will be able to gather points. At the end of the year, the top 3 will receive prizes such as osu! supporter and a shiny new badge for your profile page!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you like creating beatmaps and are also a fan of speedruns in general, this is for you! In this monthly contest, you will have to create a single difficulty beatmap for the osu! game mode from two provided songs in no more than 3 hours! This contest will go through the entire year, and every time you participate you will be able to gather points. At the end of the year, the top 3 will receive prizes such as osu!supporter and a shiny new badge for your profile page!
```

> If you like creating beatmaps and are also a fan of speedruns in general, this is for you! In this monthly contest, you will have to create a single difficulty beatmap for the osu! game mode from two provided songs in no more than 3 hours! This contest will go through the entire year, and every time you participate you will be able to gather points. At the end of the year, the top 3 will receive prizes such as osu!supporter and a shiny new badge for your profile page!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you like creating beatmaps and are also a fan of speedruns in general, this is for you. In this monthly contest, you will have to create a single difficulty beatmap for the osu! game mode from two provided songs in no more than 3 hours! 

This contest will go through the entire year, and every time you participate you will be able to gather points. At the end of the year, the top 3 will receive prizes such as osu!supporter and a shiny new badge for your profile page.
```

too many exclamations ahhhh

To participate, you will need to join the [Discord server](https://discord.gg/fVgU9pA "Discord"). For the contest rules and further information, feel free to check out the forum thread linked above.

May the best and the fastest mapper win!

<a id="conclusion"></a>

---

> And that's it for this month's issue of the Mappers' Report! A short issue this time as not much happened.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And that's it for this month's issue of the Mappers' Report! This one was a bit shorter than usual because February was a slow month.
```

> Sadly, we haven't received anything that we could put into the Around the Community section this month, that's why we left that out. Should you know of anything mapping or modding related, be it guides, podcasts or videos, let us know! We would love to include them in the next Mappers' Report! You can either directly contact [Feerum](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4815717) or drop by in the `#mappers-report` channel on the [osu! community Discord server](https://discord.gg/0Vxo9AsejDkGlk3H "Discord")!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Sadly, we haven't received anything that we could get put into the Around the Community section this month, that's why we left that out. Should you know of anything mapping or modding related, be it guides, podcasts or videos, let us know! We would love to include them in the next Mappers' Report! You can either directly contact [Feerum](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4815717) or drop by in the `#mappers-report` channel on the [osu! community Discord server](https://discord.gg/0Vxo9AsejDkGlk3H "Discord")!
```

> Sadly, we haven't received anything that we could get put into the Around the Community section this month, that's why we left that out. Should you know of anything mapping or modding related, be it guides, podcasts or videos, let us know! We would love to include them in the next Mappers' Report! You can either directly contact [Feerum](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4815717) or drop by in the `#mappers-report` channel on the [osu! community Discord server](https://discord.gg/0Vxo9AsejDkGlk3H "Discord")!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sadly, we haven't received anything that we could get put into the Around the Community section this month, that's why we left that out. Should you know of anything mapping or modding related, be it guides, podcasts or videos, let us know, as we would love to include them in the next Mappers' Report! 

You can either directly contact [Feerum](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4815717) or drop by in the `#mappers-report` channel on the [osu! community Discord server](https://discord.gg/0Vxo9AsejDkGlk3H "Discord").
```
